So in a similar way to the application listener,
we can add request listeners and session listeners,
so let's add those in one go here.
We'll add a new Java class, and we'll call it SimpleRequestListener,
and we'll use annotations for this.
This class implements ServletRequestListener,
we implement the requestInitialized and requestDestroyed methods,
and log two messages, Request Initialized and Request Destroyed.
We can do the same for the SimpleSessionListener.
Again add a new class, we'll call this SimpleSessionListener,
and here we implement HttpSessionListener.
It has a sessionCreated method and a sessionDestroyed method,
and again we log out two messages.
Sessions normally last around 20 to 30 minutes,
so to see the sessionDestroyed event,
we need to make sure the session times out in a reasonable time.
We can change that time in the web.xml file by adding a session-config section,
and in there adding a session-timeout of 1; that's in minutes.
So again if you redeploy the application,
refresh the browser, and look in the logs.
Now we see the two Context initialized events,
we see a Request Initialized and Request Destroyed,
and we see a Session Initialized, but not a Session Destroyed event.
If we go back to the browser and refresh,
you see another Request Initialized and Request Destroyed event pair,
and if we wait a minute, we'll see the sessionDestroyed event,
and there it is.
Now if you notice, the two session events come from different sources.
The sessionInitialized event comes from the Tomcat
web pool that handles the request,
but the sessionDestroyed event is fired by Tomcat on some timer, so it comes from a background thread.